Hello welcome back to the course in Python programming today we're going to talk about an interesting
topic.
Well actually we'll kick off an interesting topic that will last for a couple of tutorials.
We're going to talk about fast grids and how to create them and pie and how to work with them and fight
them.
All right so what is this all about.
Carol what are Fassett grids.
Well if we scroll back up to the top you'll find a chart that we created previously.
This is just a scatterplot.
And here we've got lots of different genres on a one chart as you can see because there are so many
points here.
It looks quite cumbersome unless you're looking for analytics.
Overall you just want to see some sort of density or some sort of overall trends.
Then this chart is too cumbersome and it needs to be somehow simplified or split up.
And that's exactly what we're going talk about.
We're going to learn how to create multiple charts for separate genres or even for based on other criteria
.
Split up that chart.
So let's let's go ahead and get started.
How do we create this contract which is actually called a fast grid.
Well first of all we need to prepare the Fassett grid in order to do that.
We're going to say energy equals S and S to all that fast that just press tabouli or populate for you
and then say movies.
And now here what we want to do is we want to specify what kind of Fassett grid we want.
So let's say we want to split up our daughter by Shanor will say a row equals Shannara and then Heugh
which is the color of the doors will also be genre.
So if we run this movies made a mistake there.
So movies if we run this you'll see that now we've got a fast grid where ROEs are movies and those are
the genre.
And so you've got obviously seven separate rows.
It's still empty but we'll be able to populate it and the concept is very similar to what we discussed
with subplots.
So it's not a subplot subplots is a separate thing in subplots you basically create a plot which then
you populate or you create figer and then you populated with several subplots and then you populate
the subplots with the viz. that you want to populate them with where it is in a facet grid.
You're basically splitting up a Brazil's zation based on some sort of rule so you're not going to populate
these you can populate them with different things.
This will be populated automatically based on the rules that you specify.
So we're actually not going to just have a fast grid that small We're going to have a bigger faster
grid.
We're going to say RO is genre and call them is years.
We're going to have a massive fast read Colma run that you add a second.
There we go.
So now we have a very very big fat cigarette so we're going to actually zoom out a bit so we can see
.
So that's the normal zoom.
So you can see that top to bottom we have seven rows one two three four five six seven.
That's for genre and left right.
That's the years and kind of makes sense to put the years left right and then we can observe any changes
just by looking from left to right.
And changes in time.
All right.
So what I'm going to do in pipo or in Jupiter I'm going to actually click here and that will reduce
it or kind of collapses like that so we don't have to scroll up and down too far and I can zoom back
in.
So that's how fast grid.
That's what it's going to be like.
I know it looks huge already so it'll be interesting to see it when it's populated.
So let's let's get to the fun stuff.
So now what we're going to do is we're going to populate it.
So we really have a facet rootlets as we remember it's the letter G.
And now what we're going to do is going to apply the map function to it and that will allow us to map
something onto that fastened grids and say Gee equals G map and in here what we're going to place is
going to put a scatterplot into each one of the.
So basically what we're doing is we're going to create a scatterplot that is going to be split across
all of this construct that we've created.
So how would we create a scatterplot.
Well let's just forget about G for a second.
Scatterplot as you say BLT does scatter in PI plot and here you would specify x and y so X would be
movies Daut critic aerating and y would be movies Daut audience rating.
So we're going to stick to the convention that we've created that create ratings on the x axis audience
rating is on the way axis so far and that you'll see that I've created scatterplot using the pipeful
function scatter.
So now what we want to do is we want to map this scatter function or this whole construct onto our Fassett
grid that we've prepared.
How do we do that.
Well we're going to use this cheat or map function and where are we going to take is we're going to
pause this again construct I'm using that word too often.
So we're going to take Peltier's scatter and we're going to pass all of it step by step into that map
.
Let's go ahead and do it.
So you're going to remove cut them as I do that.
So there it is.
I'm going to say karma.
So as you can see always I can put another set of brackets in there because I don't want to call the
function in there I want to map the function onto the grid.
So I'm going to take this now put it there and it won't take this a second go take this and put it there
as well.
All right.
Get rid of these two.
So what we did is we're actually passing.
So if you press shift tab.
All right so what's going on here.
Well here the map is requesting a function which we are parsing.
It says peel t scatter so passing a function to the dot map and then is requesting some arguments.
And this starts on August basically means they can be any number of arguments because the map doesn't
really know which function you're going to pass.
So imposing penalties scatter and then repassing the arguments that are requested or required by penalty
scatter to build the scatterplot And then what's going to happen is the map is going to map this function
onto all Fassett grid.
All right so there's a couple of things that we have to adjust here.
First of all that code is not going to work unless we run it together with the Fassett grid.
So this is part of the constructing of the and grid so we're going to need to put this bit over here
.
And so if we run it again I'll just recreate the Fassett grid for us and then map this function onto
it.
Then you will see that here we are using movies that create grading we don't need to use movies because
movies are already specified in the Fassett grid.
So the Fassett grid is based on the movies doorframe.
It's already waiting to be able to split whatever it gets by genre according to Rose by year according
to columns and colored by genre.
We don't need the movies here and we don't need the movies here.
The other thing is because we removed movies now.
These need quotation marks.
All right so once that is all prepared you can run this code for a second.
And there we go.
That is our scatterplot mapped onto the Fassett grid so you can see that it has been split.
Magically it looks like it's been split magically by different genres so here you've got the genre specified
action adventure comedy and so on and virtually is being split by years.
So it's thousand seven eight nine 10 11 and also it has been colored by genre so you can see it's been
colored by the rose.
So that's that's wonderful that's exactly what we wanted and we're going to also collapse that so we
can see it in one go.
One other thing actually I wanted to show you is that you can populate with pretty much any type of
chart chart.
So let's have example histograms.
Right so let's do that same whole procedure again.
Let's copy this and put it in here.
And so this time instead of PLG scatter we're going to say peel dad Hist.
And for people to hear we only need only one variable right because we're putting a histogram.
And in this case we can say Budget millions for instance so far on this.
So now you can see that we've got the histograms have been created.
Again it's split by genre by year so genres like that the roads the years are columns and it's showing
you the budget millions in that genre in that year the distribution for the budget million.
All right so that's just an example that you can populate anything into your scatterplot or into your
facet good.
It can be a bit tricky sometimes some sort of charts you just need to do some research on how exactly
to populate your specific type of chart.
But we're going to move back to our scatter plots because that's the charge we're working on that's
the one we actually need.
And here what we need to do is just type here back to the scatter plots.
So here what we want to do is we want to add one more argument.
So we talked about the keyword arguments previously.
They are passed on as a dictionary so let's go ahead and practice that and you'll see here that if you
wish X shift tab you'll see that G and postes the keyword arguments here.
What keyword arguments can we possibly want to pass.
Well if you're on this code you'll see that the DOTs are quite small.
The color might be OK but they don't have a contour we might want to change the contour or the edge
of the dots so let's go ahead and try that out.
We'll say.
KW As for keywords and Hirose dictionary.
And he'll say as equals 50 for example that's the size that we want line of with equals 0.5 and edge
color.
What the U.
Equals black.
So this is something we discussed before.
So what that basically does is creates the keyword arguments or a dictionary of keywords.
So if I just run key KW separate to here you'll see that you've got Eshkol in black line with serpent
5 five is 50.
I remember in a dictionary they're not stored in a particular order because the keys is what matters
not the order.
And then I can just pass the dictionary here so of had double Starcade.
Yes.
If I passed the dictionary there now you'll see that our chart is going to look a bit different.
Now it is a bit bigger indeed.
And the dots themselves the points are bigger and they have an outline a black outline which makes them
stand out better especially if they're overlapping.
So if I zoom out a bit there is a whole chart so it looks pretty neat.
And it is a bit big.
So it is bigger than you'd expect but at the same time we've got to remember that we're going to be
analyzing this more left to right then top to bottom so we're going to be looking at how did the relationship
.
This is what the CEO asked for.
How did the relationship between the audience rating and the critic rating evolve throughout the years
.
And so here we can actually see it by genre so for action this is how it evolved.
You can see that it became a bit more scattered and then kind of like separate into two groups here
.
It became a bit more condensed and a more lined out again for this one for drama.
It definitely became more condensed and went up into the top right corner.
So you can already observe some sort of trends even from this preliminary set up that we've done for
our Fassett grid.
All right so hopefully you are able to following that tutorial and you enjoyed it.
Give that a go.
Play around with the Fassett grid.
It is a quite important concept in visualization and Python because oftentimes if you're going to be
continuing doing analytic centralization By think oftentimes you'll find that Fassett grids might be
a good solution to your analytics challenges.
And on that note I look forward to seeing you in the next tutorial.
Until then happy coding.